So my mother was born in the country of Bulgaria in 1922 and in the early 50s my family
emigrated from Germany to the United States.
We settled in New York City and it was there that my mother learned the truth.
That's the first time I opened a Bible.
I've ended up in Revelation chapter 21 but what hit me was the point that they will
might be sickness, sorrow and death anymore.
Anyone that comes into the truth wants to share that with their family.
I had the desire to tell them the truth how they can get free from oppression and sickness
and death.
So she very much saw the deed and desired to have literature in the Bulgarian language.
She was able to ask the brothers in Brooklyn specifically offering could she translate
some literature in Bulgaria.
The brothers approved her to do that starting out with some of the tracks.
So Bulgaria was behind the Iron Curtain, a communist country, literature about God and the
Bible is not acceptable and banned and so you can't just mail it.
So as literature became available people have to take it in.
My family was one of those families that volunteered to do that.
We traveled into Bulgaria by train.
We have a lot of luggage because every time we will go to Bulgaria we stay two and a half
months.
That was the summer vacation.
In that luggage in various places we put literature.
Getting into a country with banned literature is not without its problems or dangers.
They knew that we had some literature and that was the track.
My mother realized that we were going to be searched.
We had the ability then to take the literature out of each luggage that we had hidden it
and to put it into one small briefcase.
And what we couldn't as unfolded tracks, we put around our arm with our overcoats over
it.
I was only worried about how I can hide that literature so he cannot find it because
he will find it than really the consequences.
So as the guards would search through the luggage they rifle through it.
They don't straighten anything out.
So my mother quickly thought and asked them, can I now go over there and straighten out
what you've messed up?
And they said, okay.
And I took my tracks which I had around my hand and I put it in the already checked bag
over there.
One of the guards gets to the point that it's my little briefcase.
He says, this is so small, nothing could be in here and he just takes it over there.
The man who was looking up was getting very nervous because he knew we had something
but he was not able to find it.
So on one trip years later my mother was on her own.
The officials at the border of Bulgaria found the literature.
They arrested her.
They put her in prison.
They interrogated her for two weeks or more every day.
And in time the Bulgarian government had changed their mind and had decided that as a foreign
national they would just expel her from the country.
To this day my mother continues her spiritual routine of worshiping Jehovah, being at the
meetings, preparing for the meetings, reading her Bible and zealously sharing the truth
with others.
It helps me practically every minute in my life and I want to use my last energy to
make this world know.